We will learn to evaluate a
company using one of the most
common methods that are the comparable
multiple.
What we will do very briefly is
to analyze how much other companies
that are similar to ours are worth,
because of our sector,
in the same geographic
area, etc.
We will get conclusions and we
will apply it to our company.
We will then be able to look at the market.
What are the advantages of this?
For example, if we compare it with
the discount of cash flows, to
start with it is easier to
do, it is easier to get information
from similar companies,
etc., or from listed companies,
than to do the projection
of cash flows, which is
more complex.
It is a more objective assessment.
That is, you won't be based on your hypotheses
on how much you're going to grow,
on your opinions, no.
We will be based on data that is
objective, which is, for example,
by how much have sold companies
that are similar to ours, which
does not mean that it is
better.
I say it is objective.
The first thing you need to know is to
understand well what the concept of
the multiple or the comparable multiple
consists of.
Basically, the multiple what they
do is to relate the value of the
company, which can be the value
of the company or the value
of the equity, they relate
the valuation with some
of the main business indicators,
such as sales, such as
the levit, such as net
profit, etc.
It is a relationship between the two.
What we do is look at other companies,
see how much they are worth and
relate it to their sales or
avoid them, etc.
As there are different indicators, there
are different multiple.
A company can be valued based
on different multiple.
Some are the most well-known.
For example, the multiplier on
sales, the multiplier on avoidance,
the PER, which is the value
of the quote related to
the net profit, etc.
We will leave you a listing on the
additional resources and so that
you understand well what we will
do is deepen into some of the most
well-known multiple.
Let's start with the multiplier on sales.
The formula is on the screen.
What we do is to relate the value
of the company to the sales of
that company.
Imagine you have a pharmacy and you
want to sell it.
And it turns out that the multiple in
your sector is between 1.5 and 2 over sales.
What is this meaning?
Well, what it means is that the value
of the company is equal to the sales,
the sales of your pharmacy, multiplied
by that usual multiple
in the sector.
We will apply it to ours.
It turns out that you have a pharmacy
that bills a million euros and we
will apply the multiplier of 1.
5 in the low range.
The minimum value of the company
is 1.5 million.
So of simple.
Another common multiple
is the over-evita multiple.
In this case, we do not start from
the sales above in the result
account, but we go to a magnitude
that is more representative
of the profit.
What is the formula?
Well, because the multiple over
avoids what it does is to relate the
value of the company to the avoids.
If we want to calculate what the
value of our company is,
we will have to multiply the avoid
by the multiple that is reasonable
in our sector.
In this case, we will think that
we have a shoe factory.
And it turns out that companies
in our sector are being valued
and are selling in a multiple
of avoid by 7.
Imagine, it's just an example,
but it could be real.
If it turns out that in our company
we have an annual avoidance of
one million euros, well, because
we can already make the valuation
of our company.
Using the multiple over
method, it results to be worth
7 million euros.
Another well-known multiple, which
is very used when we talk about
listed companies, is the P.
It may sound.
It is the relationship between price,
quote, in this case we talk about
the value of the own funds
or equity and net profit.
Price-earning ratio of the project.
If a company is being rated with
a 20, imagine, it means it's very
high, it means that the value of
your quotation is equal to your
annual net profit by 20, for
example.
By the way, I want you to keep
in mind that multiple, as I said
before, can be applied to
different magnitudes.
And, in addition, good, because
it is that really within each sector
it makes sense to apply or use the
magnitudes or others.
And let's think, for example, that
we are in the internet sector,
in the classified sector, imagine.
All this is a supposition.
It turns out that companies
in our sector, almost none
have, many have not yet been able
to monetize their users,
will do so in the future, and in
addition, obviously, none has benefits.
Companies must be valued in
some way.
There is a value indicator that is
representative of the value of
the company.
In this case, it could be, for
example, indicators such as the
number of users or traffic, for example,
it could be that it was done
many years ago.
We use a multiple of
the number of users.
We link the value of the company
with the number of users.
And it turns out that in your industry
it is being evaluated, similar companies
have been evaluated to a multiple
of 10 on the number of users.
In other words, each user is
considered to be worth 10.
If you have a million users,
your company would be worth 10
million euros.
To finish, we will summarize
what steps we would have
to take if we want to evaluate
our company using the comparable
multiple.
The first thing we need to do
is identify which companies
are comparable.
We have to look at companies
from which we can draw conclusions
that make sense.
Companies from our sector,
from our same geographic
area that resemble us, etc.
And by the way, there is a big distinction here.
There is a distinction between
whether we are talking about listed
or unlisted companies.
In fact, I sometimes say it because
you may see it separately as
if they were different
valuation methods.
In the end, the multiple is
always used.
The practice is very different
when we talk about
companies.
Why is it?
Because the information is
accessible and what you are doing
is to compare the company's
quotation price at that time
with your business's indicators.
However, when we talk about non-
listed companies, as we talked
about the case of the pharmacy,
you obviously can't start from
the value of the quote or the
price of the quote at that time.
What we have to do is fix ourselves
on transactions, in purchase
and sale operations, for example,
that have been given previously.
It's like buying a house.
What you do is consider what
the purchase price has been
given in similar operations
near your home, for example.
As I told you, it is different
methodology if we talk about
co-opted companies or non-cointended
companies, in which case
we fix on previous transactions.
We know which companies
we need to look at.
The following is to identify which
are the multiple that make the
most sense to value our company.
And here you have to take into account
the following.
In many cases, multiple
is conditioned by the
multiple that is used.
If you use the multiple
over avoid, you will have to
consider the multiple over
avoid.
What happens is that it is true
that from the concrete knowledge
of your business it is possible
that you can make certain nuances.
For example, imagine, we will put
ourselves in the case that we
have a tax advice and it turns out
that in our sector the advice is
valued to a multiple, imagine,
of 1.5 survents.
But it turns out that you have a much
higher margin of surplus sales than
your competitors.
That is, if your advisory bills
two million, your profits are much
higher than the average of advisory
with the same invoice.
In this case, if what we do is
to apply only the multiple
surplus, we are
undervaluing our company.
So we would have to make certain adjustments,
it has all the sense of
the world.
Well, we already know what we are going
to fix on, we already know what
multiple we will use.
What we do is analyze those data,
calculate the multiple, apply
them to our company and so we
will get the value of our company.